# Creating Database Schema

- You can create Database schema on [dbdiagram.io](https://dbdiagram.io/)

- The schema for this project is stored in [Simple Bank](/db/schema/Simple%20Bank.sql)

# Setting up PostgreSQL on Docker

To view general Docker syntax and commands open [Docker Commands](./02.Docker%20Commands.md)

- Pull PostgreSQL image *(postgres:12-alpine)* using ```docker pull postgres:12-alpine```

- Create the PostgreSQL container by executing ```docker run --name postgres12 -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_USER=root -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret -d postgres:12-alpine```

# Setting up TablePlus

- Download and install Table Plus and create a new connection.

- Enter the respective details in the field i.e

    ```yaml
        Name: postgres12
        Host: localhost
        Port: 5432
        User: root
        Password: secret
        Database: root
    ```

# Setting up Go Migration

To view general Go Migration syntax and commands open [Go Migration Commands](./03.Go%20Migration%20Commands.md)

- First create a directory [/db/migration/](/db/migration/).

- Then run the command ```migrate create -ext sql -dir db/migration -seq init_schema```

    - ```migrate create```: This is the base command to create a new migration file.

    - ```-ext sql```: Specifies that the migration file should have a .sql extension, indicating it will contain SQL statements.

    - ```-dir db/migration```: Sets the directory where the migration file will be created. In this case, it's in a folder called "migration" inside a "db" directory.

    - ```-seq```: This flag typically means the migration files will be created with sequential numeric prefixes.

    - ```init_schema```: This is the name given to the migration. It suggests that this migration will initialize the database schema.

- The [000001_init_schema.up.sql](/db//migration/000001_init_schema.up.sql) creates the schema in the database

- The [000001_init_schema.down.sql](/db/migration/000001_init_schema.down.sql) deletes the tables from the database